
1
CHAPTER ONE
The Boy Who Lived
Mr and Mrs Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were
proud to say that they were perfectly normal, thank
you very much. They were the last people you’d expect to be
involved in anything strange or mysterious, because they just
didn’t hold with such nonsense.
Mr Dursley was the director of a firm called Grunnings,
which made drills. He was a big, beefy man with hardly
any neck, although he did have a very large moustache.
Mrs Dursley was thin and blonde and had nearly twice the
usual amount of neck, which came in very useful as she spent
so much of her time craning over garden fences, spying on the
neighbours. The Dursleys had a small son called Dudley and
in their opinion there was no finer boy anywhere.
The Dursleys had everything they wanted, but they also
had a secret, and their greatest fear was that somebody would
discover it. They didn’t think they could bear it if anyone
found out about the Potters. Mrs Potter was Mrs Dursley’s
sister, but they hadn’t met for several years; in fact, Mrs
Dursley pretended she didn’t have a sister, because her sister
and her good-for-nothing husband were as unDursleyish as it
was possible to be. The Dursleys shuddered to think what the
neighbours would say if the Potters arrived in the street. The
Dursleys knew that the Potters had a small son, too, but they
had never even seen him. This boy was another good reason
for keeping the Potters away; they didn’t want Dudley mixing
with a child like that.
When Mr and Mrs Dursley woke up on the dull, grey
Tuesday our story starts, there was nothing about the cloudy
sky outside to suggest that strange and mysterious things
would soon be happening all over the country. Mr Dursley
hummed as he picked out his most boring tie for work and
Mrs Dursley gossiped away happily as she wrestled a screaming
Dudley into his high chair.
None of them noticed a large tawny owl flutter past the
window.
At half past eight, Mr Dursley picked up his briefcase,
pecked Mrs Dursley on the cheek and tried to kiss Dudley
goodbye but missed, because Dudley was now having a
tantrum and throwing his cereal at the walls. ‘Little tyke,’
chortled Mr Dursley as he left the house. He got into his car
and backed out of number four’s drive.
It was on the corner of the street that he noticed the first
sign of something peculiar – a cat reading a map. For a second,
Mr Dursley didn’t realise what he had seen – then he jerked
his head around to look again. There was a tabby cat standing
on the corner of Privet Drive, but there wasn’t a map in sight.
What could he have been thinking of? It must have been a
trick of the light. Mr Dursley blinked and stared at the cat. It
stared back. As Mr Dursley drove around the corner and up
the road, he watched the cat in his mirror. It was now reading
the sign that said Privet Drive – no, looking at the sign; cats
couldn’t read maps or signs. Mr Dursley gave himself a little
shake and put the cat out of his mind. As he drove towards
town he thought of nothing except a large order of drills he
was hoping to get that day.
But on the edge of town, drills were driven out of his mind
by something else. As he sat in the usual morning traffic jam, he
couldn’t help noticing that there seemed to be a lot of strangely
dressed people about. People in cloaks. Mr Dursley couldn’t
bear people who dressed in funny clothes – the get-ups you saw
on young people! He supposed this was some stupid new
fashion. He drummed his fingers on the steering wheel and his
eyes fell on a huddle of these weirdos standing quite close by.
They were whispering excitedly together. Mr Dursley was
enraged to see that a couple of them weren’t young at all; why,
that man had to be older than he was, and wearing an emerald-
green cloak! The nerve of him! But then it struck Mr Dursley
that this was probably some silly stunt – these people were
obviously collecting for something ... yes, that would be it.
The traffi c moved on, and a few minutes later, Mr Dursley
arrived in the Grunnings car park, his mind back on drills.
Mr Dursley always sat with his back to the window in his
office on the ninth floor. If he hadn’t, he might have found it
harder to concentrate on drills that morning. He didn’t see the
owls swooping past in broad daylight, though people down in
the street did; they pointed and gazed open-mouthed as owl
after owl sped overhead. Most of them had never seen an owl
even at night- time. Mr Dursley, however, had a perfectly
normal, owl-free morning. He yelled at five different people.
He made several important telephone calls and shouted a bit
more. He was in a very good mood until lunchtime, when he
thought he’d stretch his legs and walk across the road to buy
himself a bun from the baker’s opposite.
He’d forgotten all about the people in cloaks until he
passed a group of them next to the baker’s. He eyed them
angrily as he passed. He didn’t know why, but they made him
uneasy. This lot were whispering excitedly, too, and he
couldn’t see a single collecting tin. It was on his way back past
them, clutching a large doughnut in a bag, that he caught a
few words of what they were saying.
‘The Potters, that’s right, that’s what I heard –’
‘– yes, their son, Harry –’
Mr Dursley stopped dead. Fear flooded him. He looked
back at the whisperers as if he wanted to say something to
them, but thought better of it.
He dashed back across the road, hurried up to his office,
snapped at his secretary not to disturb him, seized his
telephone and had almost finished dialling his home number
when he changed his mind. He put the receiver back down
and stroked his moustache, thinking ... no, he was being
stupid. Potter wasn’t such an unusual name. He was sure there


The Vanishing Glass
It was a very sunny Saturday and the zoo was crowded with families. The Dursleys
bought Dudley and Piers large chocolate ice creams at the entrance and then,
because the smiling lady in the van had asked Harry what he wanted before they
could hurry him away, they bought him a cheap lemon ice pop. It wasn’t bad, either,
Harry thought, licking it as they watched a gorilla scratching its head who looked
remarkably like Dudley, except that it wasn’t blond.
Harry had the best morning he’d had in a long time. He was careful to walk a little
way apart from the Dursleys so that Dudley and Piers, who were starting to get
bored with the animals by lunchtime, wouldn’t fall back on their favourite hobby of
hitting him. They ate in the zoo restaurant, and when Dudley had a tantrum because
his knickerbocker glory didn’t have enough ice cream on top, Uncle Vernon bought
him another one and Harry was allowed to finish the first.
Harry felt, afterward, that he should have known it was all too good to last.
After lunch they went to the reptile house. It was cool and dark in there, with lit
windows all along the walls. Behind the glass, all sorts of lizards and snakes were
crawling and slithering over bits of wood and stone. Dudley and Piers wanted to see
huge, poisonous cobras and thick, man-crushing pythons. Dudley quickly found the
largest snake in the place. It could have wrapped its body twice around Uncle
Vernon’s car and crushed it into a trash can — but at the moment it didn’t look in the
mood. In fact, it was fast asleep.
Dudley stood with his nose pressed against the glass, staring at the glistening brown
coils.
“Make it move,” he whined at his father. Uncle Vernon tapped on the glass, but the
snake didn’t budge.
“Do it again,” Dudley ordered. Uncle Vernon rapped the glass smartly with his
knuckles, but the snake just snoozed on.
“This is boring,” Dudley moaned. He shuffled away.
Harry moved in front of the tank and looked intently at the snake. He wouldn’t have
been surprised if it had died of boredom itself — no company except stupid people
drumming their fingers on the glass trying to disturb it all day long. It was worse than
having a cupboard as a bedroom, where the only visitor was Aunt Petunia
hammering on the door to wake you up; at least he got to visit the rest of the house.
The snake suddenly opened its beady eyes. Slowly, very slowly, it raised its head
until its eyes were on a level with Harry’s.
It winked.
Harry stared. Then he looked quickly around to see if anyone was watching. They
weren’t. He looked back at the snake and winked, too.
The snake jerked its head toward Uncle Vernon and Dudley, then raised its eyes to
the ceiling. It gave Harry a look that said quite plainly:
“I get that all the time.”
“I know,” Harry murmured through the glass, though he wasn’t sure the snake could
hear him. “It must be really annoying.”
The snake nodded vigorously.
“Where do you come from, anyway?” Harry asked.
The snake jabbed its tail at a little sign next to the glass. Harry peered at it.
Boa Constrictor, Brazil.
“Was it nice there?”
The boa constrictor jabbed its tail at the sign again and Harry read on: This
specimen was bred in the zoo. “Oh, I see — so you’ve never been to Brazil?”
As the snake shook its head, a deafening shout behind Harry made both of them
jump. “DUDLEY! MR. DURSLEY! COME AND LOOK AT THIS SNAKE! YOU WON’T
BELIEVE WHAT IT’S DOING!”
Dudley came waddling toward them as fast as he could.
“Out of the way, you,” he said, punching Harry in the ribs. Caught by surprise, Harry
fell hard on the concrete floor. What came next happened so fast no one saw how it
happened — one second, Piers and Dudley were leaning right up close to the glass,
the next, they had leapt back with howls of horror.
Harry sat up and gasped; the glass front of the boa constrictor’s tank had vanished.
The great snake was uncoiling itself rapidly, slithering out onto the floor. People
throughout the reptile house screamed and started running for the exits.
As the snake slid swiftly past him, Harry could have sworn a low, hissing voice said,
“Brazil, here I come... Thanksss, amigo.”
The keeper of the reptile house was in shock.
“But the glass,” he kept saying, “where did the glass go?”
The zoo director himself made Aunt Petunia a cup of strong, sweet tea while he
apologized over and over again. Piers and Dudley could only gibber. As far as Harry
had seen, the snake hadn’t done anything except snap playfully at their heels as it
passed, but by the time they were all back in Uncle Vernon’s car, Dudley was telling
them how it had nearly bitten off his leg, while Piers was swearing it had tried to
squeeze him to death. But worst of all, for Harry at least, was Piers calming down
enough to say, “Harry was talking to it, weren’t you, Harry?”
Uncle Vernon waited until Piers was safely out of the house before starting on Harry.
He was so angry he could hardly speak. He managed to say, “Go — cupboard —
stay — no meals,” before he collapsed into a chair, and Aunt Petunia had to run and
get him something to drink.
